# Uncertain-Inference-on-Bayesian-Networks
Implemented inference by enumeration, rejection sampling, and likelihood weighting algorithms to perform analysis on various Bayesian networks.

I did not collaborate on this project and all work is my own. I've completed the 10 percent bonus by implementing a second approximation algorithm. I used ArraySet, Assignment, BayesianNetwork, BIFLexer, BIFParser, CPT, CPTFormatException, Distribution, Domain, MyBNApproxInferencer, ParserException, Printable, RandomVariable, WeightedSample and XMLBIFParser classes in my implementation of the Inference by Enumeration, Rejection Sampling, and Likelihood Weighting algorithms. Figures 14.9, 14.13, 14.14, and 14.15 of the AIMA text helped me gain an understanding of the procedures. These .java files all represent different components of a bayesian network. A Random Variable is an observable variable in a logical universe. A Bayesian Network can consist of multiple variables. Evidence variables are expressed through assignments, which map the variables to values within their domain. Distributions map domain values to the probability of their occurrence. Together, these objects allow for the manipulation and processing of conditional probabilities within a network.

MyBNInferencer.java solves all exact inference queries. MyBNApproxInferencer.java solves both approximation algorithms for a given query. This project also contains my WRITEUP.pdf.

How to run: Place source files on desktop, open command prompt, type "cd desktop" then "javac <Main>.java". Main is MyBNInferencer or MyBNApproxInferencer. Finally, enter "java <Main> <sample_size> examples/<network_file> <query_var> <evid_var> <value>..." to run. If using the approximation java file, a sample size must be provided. Otherwise, ignore the tag. A network_file must match a file name within the examples folder. A query_var must be a valid variable within the network and evid_var and value must come in pairs with valid random variables and a valid domain value.
